ctrical efficiency from about 25% to 35% compared to plain PV panels. Moreover, the use of these diffuse reflectors can offset the negative effect of the optical losses in the case of glazed PV-T collectors, achieving higher electrical and thermal efficiency. Thermal efficiencies of up to 80% and 75% for water and air extraction modes respectively have been reported [71,73]. In CSP systems, optical reflectors focus the solar radiation on chan - nels that contain a heat transfer fluid. PV cells can be placed on the top of these channels, therefore providing electricity, while the fluid cools the PV cells, avoiding their decrease in efficiency due to an increase in temperature. In this line, some authors [297 – 299] have developed a low-concentration, linear, hybrid micro-concentrator collector for rooftop installation. Its main advantage is the replacement of expensive solar cells with inexpensive optics and tracking systems, consisting of Fig. 15. Building-integrated dual air – water PV-T collector [292]. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 18 low-cost, ultra-light-weight Fresnel mirror arrays, which allow increasing the concentrating ratio to up to 20 – 30 × , which is enough for the domestic market needs [297,298]. However, although the demands on optics, tracking systems, thermal management, and maintenance are considerably lower than for high-concentration CPV-T collectors, these collectors still have some drawbacks to enter the rooftop urban market, such as the need for lower maintenance, more reliability, easier opera - tion and a more economical installation [297]. In higher concentration systems, more complex optics, tracking, and working fluids outside of water are necessary. Additionally, many of these systems use either spectral beam splitting (SBS), as recently reviewed [300], or spectral absorption filtering, also recently reviewed [301], to reduce the flux on the solar cells to limit the working tem - perature of the PV system. One approach of SBS is to use secondary mirrors to redirect light to a CPV-T system, as was proposed by Liu et al. [302], where a linear Fresnel mirror was coupled to a beam splitter to separate the spectrum. In their work, the visible light is transmitted through the beam splitter over wavelengths from 590 to 1082 nm to the receiver while the remainder was reflected to the thermal portion. Only modelling was conducted. Kandili [303] demonstrated a CPV-T system using parabolic dish concentrators where the light was focussed onto PV cells coated with an SBS mirror which reflects light to a vacuum tube. The system demonstrated a combined system efficiency of 7.3% (with 1.6 m 2 surface area under 720 W/m 2 of solar radiation). A modelling study by Yu et al. [304] focussed on a retrofit for parabolic trough mirrors that replaces the traditional mirrors with PV cells and dichroic mirrors. Silicon hetero-junction cells were attached to a glass trough with dichroic mirrors covering the cells to reflect the wavelengths (shorter than 500 nm and longer than 1100 nm) to the heat collection element (HCE). The model demonstrated an energy output increase of 36% above that of a pure CSP system. Economic models predicted a 30% increase in the cost of the collector [304]. A large-scale experimental investigation of spectral beam splitting [305] developed a parabolic trough coupled to an organic Rankine cycle. Using vertical multi-junction solar cells and dichroic mirrors that intercepted 29% of the light from the trough, PV cell efficiencies of 29 – 30% were reported. Considering the full trough aperture area, the efficiency of the cells added in the retrofit was 3%. In an SBS demonstration using GaAs PV cells [306] that comprised a secondary mirror due to the high below-gap reflectivity, it was possible to create a secondary reflector comprised of the PV elements for increasing flux on the HCE. Another retrofit approach using the existing architecture of parabolic troughs coupled to a spectral splitter was demonstrated using SBS mirrors that reflected light onto a triangular receiver while transmitting the remainder of the light to the existing HCE [307]. The concept of spectral absorption was developed using a thin absorbing film filter as demonstrated by Stanley et al. [308]. PV cell efficiency was 3.6 – 4.0%, while the observed thermal efficiency was ~35% at working fluid temperatures of 120 ◦ C, approaching the maximum working temperature due to the onset of flow boiling. This approach is unique in that it utilizes a solid film deployed in the liquid, but the vast majority of spectral absorption techniques employ volu - metric absorption by deploying nanoparticles directly into the fluid. One of the first experimental demonstrations was by F. Crisostomo et al. [309] where various concentrations of silver nanodiscs in water were both the spectral filter and working fluid. A peak overall efficiency of 33% was obtained. An et al. [310] demonstrated a CPV-T system based on polypyrrole and water. The authors reported an overall efficiency (based upon temperature rise, not flowing fluid) at a peak of 25%, with a peak PV cell efficiency of 11%. This study was followed up with Cu 9 S 5 nanoparticle suspended in oleylamine fluid with back contact c-Si solar cells [310]. The authors reported a peak total efficiency of 34% with the PV cell efficiency at 12% and the thermal efficiency at 23% with the temperature of the fluid exceeding 100 ◦ C [311]. Otanicar et al. [312] was the first demonstration of a nanoparticle absorbing fluid in a CPV-T system where the working fluid was flowing and exceeded 100 ◦ C [312]. The prototype system used a combination of gold and indium tin oxide nanoparticles suspended in Duratherm S to achieve thermal and elec - trical efficiencies of 61% and 4% respectively at a fluid working tem - perature of 110 ◦ C. 3. Performance enhancement and pathways for collector innovation According to previous reviews [28,35,129], the main bottlenecks for the widespread commercialization of PV-T collectors are the higher price compared to side-by-side solar systems (PV and ST collectors), public awareness, product standardization, warranties and performance certification, installation and training experiences. These studies concluded that more research is required on new and cost-competitive products, recognized testing procedures and standards, and demon - stration projects. Special interest is given to the need of improving the electrical and thermal performance of liquid-based PV-T collectors [129], in particular to the research in the thermal absorber design and fabrication [41], material and coating selection, energy conversion and effectiveness, performance testing, system optimization and control and reliability [28]. The total energy output (electrical plus heat) of a hybrid PV-T col - lector depends on several factors, such as the configuration design and heat extraction arrangement employed; the solar irradiance, ambient temperature, and wind speed; and the operating temperatures of several important components. In most applications, the electrical output is the main priority, in which case the operating condition of the heat transfer arrangement is adjusted to optimize electrical performance. Specifically, Fig. 16. Schematics of the most common types of CPV-T collectors. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 19 the cooling fluid in the heat transfer circuit is kept at a low temperature to avoid an otherwise undesirable decrease in the electrical efficiency of the PV cell [71,73 – 75]. Therefore, most PV-T systems deployed to date are aimed at delivering low-temperature heat ( < 40 ◦ C) [22]. However, this constraint for the heat transfer fluid to exit the collector at low temperatures to allow higher electrical outputs imposes a limit on its posterior use for heating purposes. It is believed that the PV-T technology can reach a considerably larger market if it was optimized to deliver thermal energy at 40 – 60 ◦ C, as these are the delivery temperatures of DHW and space heating [22]. Nevertheless, if the system is designed to provide higher fluid temper - atures at the PV-T collector outlet, then the electrical efficiency de - creases [71,73,75,313]. Hence, a design conflict arises between the electrical and thermal performance of hybrid PV-T collectors, and a trade-off is needed depending on the end-user needs and the local solar and environmental conditions. This conflict, along with the higher costs of PV-T collectors compared to side-by-side PV panels and ST collectors, used to be the two main reasons why these systems are currently not as widely employed as separate, individual PV panels and ST collector equivalents [73]. The energy performance of a PV-T collector depends on the ability of the cooling fluid to extract heat from the collector. An ambitious strat - egy to boost the market uptake of this technology would be to optimize PV-T collectors to deliver thermal energy at higher temperatures (40 – 60 ◦ C), whilst mitigating thermal and electrical losses, and ensuring col - lector reliability and longevity. To this end, the main performance enhancement pathways for collector innovation include: (a) increasing the heat transfer area and/or the heat transfer coefficient between the absorber plate/tubes and the cooling fluid [122,314]; (b) adapt the PV cell technology for its integration in PV-T collectors; (c) using solar se - lective coatings [314,315]; (d) using spectral splitting techniques; and (e) increasing the thermal conductivity of the working fluid using for example nanofluids [314]. The following sections address these path - ways in detail. 3.1. Collector design modifications Several design parameters influence the performance of a PV-T col - lector, including the fluid flow rate, the inlet temperature of the working fluid, the number of covers [28], the absorber thermal properties along with the quality of the thermal contact between the cooling fluid and the absorber [121], the PV cell packing factor [27] and the collector design (e.g., tube length, pipe diameter, width to pipe diameter ( W / D ) ratio) [48,122]. Fig. 17 shows an exploded view of a typical PV-T collector, with the different layers and the following sections summarize the main research studies that consider the aforementioned parameters. 3.1.1. Glazing Several PV-T configurations exist for glazing (i.e., covering with transparent solid windows or plates) [28,120,317], specifically: un - covered, one, two (see Fig. 18) or more covers, along with different filling gases, honeycombs or transparent insulation materials (TIM), as well as evacuation [34]. The use of a cover (such as glazing) reduces thermal losses, thus increasing the thermal efficiency of the collector [121,318], but it also raises the PV cell temperature and the reflection losses, reducing the electrical efficiency [74,76,118]. A previous study concluded that a covered PV-T collector has almost double the thermal efficiency of an uncovered one, but the electrical efficiency drops by around 10% as shown in Fig. 19 [34]. Meanwhile, other studies have estimated that thermal generation increases by between 10% and 30% with the pres - ence of a cover [71,319], while the electrical output decreases by 1 – 10% [120,319]. In more recent work, the same authors reported a decrease in the first-order heat-loss coefficient ( a 1 ) from 7.07 to 2.17 W/(m 2 K) thanks to the addition of a glass cover, resulting in > 30% efficiency at collector temperatures up to 75 ◦ C [121]. However, the cover might also make the PV cells more sensitive to hot spots, and reflection losses and the higher PV cell temperature reduce electrical efficiency [76], by 10 – 20% reduction in electrical output, most notably at large solar incidence angles [121]. Similar findings were reported for a parallel-pipes PV-T collector made of aluminium alloy, with a thermal efficiency increasing from 44% to 51% with the glazing, while the electrical efficiency dropped from 14% to 13% when the PV cell tem - perature was around 38 ◦ C [126]. Regarding the number of glass covers, the results of previous research concluded that although a sheet-and-tube collector with two covers has a slightly higher thermal efficiency at elevated water tem - peratures compared to a single-cover collector, its electrical efficiency deteriorates considerably due to the second cover [120,125]. Conse - quently, a good balance is needed between the increase in thermal and Fig. 17. Exploded view and cross-section of a common, sheet-and-tube PV-T collector design: (1) transparent cover (optional); (2) front cover of PV cells and encapsulant; (3) PV cells; (4) encapsulant; (5) backsheet/rear cover of PV cells and encapsulant (optional); (6) thermal absorber; (7) insulation; (8) casing; (9) air vent (optional); (10) fluid outlets; (11) sealing; (12) gap (optional, in covered collectors); and (13) junction box. Images reprinted with permission from the authors, Hadorn et al. [316]. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 20 electrical efficiencies, being single-covered PV-T collectors an inter - esting option when a significant thermal output is needed [71], while the best exergy gain is found for uncovered PV-T collectors [28]. In the particular case of low-temperature water demand, the use of unglazed PV-T collectors is recommended for satisfying the demand year-round, with the hot fluid feeding the source of an HP [35,76]. Typical transparent covers are single glass sheets with a thickness of 3.2 mm [128,137,320] or 4 mm [122,317,321,322], due to their optical and mechanical properties. The glass is characterized by high trans - parency in the visible and near-infrared spectra, while it has an opaque behaviour for far-infrared wavelengths, as it is the radiation emitted by a hot surface. Meanwhile, the gap thicknesses should be thin enough to make use of the insulating properties of the filling gas, while preventing convective flows that would increase the thermal losses [36]. Different gap thicknesses have been considered in the literature: 5 mm [27], 10 mm [122,323], 20 mm [120,127,324], 25 mm [126,134,272,325] and even 40 mm [132]. A previous study analysed the impact of the gap thickness (from 4 to 40 mm) on the convection coefficient between the glazing and PV cells, as shown in Fig. 20. The minimum heat convection loss and maximum thermal efficiency are achieved for a thickness of around 11 mm when using air or argon as an encapsulant [317]. It is observed that the gap thickness has a small influence on the electrical efficiency because the optical efficiency is independent of the gap thickness. In addition to performance in terms of efficiencies, the use of glazing results in higher stagnation temperatures, which can be useful for certain applications but critical for some PV panel encapsulants [76]. For instance, EVA experiences a deterioration in its mechanical prop - erties and can become brown under UV exposure at 130 ◦ C, reducing absorption [22]. An alternative encapsulant is silicone resin [34]. Another possibility is to remove entirely the PV panel glass cover and associated EVA, in an encapsulant-free PV-T collector [22]. The feasi - bility of this solution has been demonstrated in covered PV-T collectors with dry air as filling gas [326]. Recently, two innovative PV-T collectors with overheating protection were proposed to avoid excessive stagnation temperatures: venting the collector by opening ventilation channels beneath the thermal absorber, and a switchable film that controls the heat losses by adjusting the distance between the thermal absorber and the polymer film, which substitutes the front glazing. The experimental tests show promising results, reaching a maximum stagnation temperature of 102 ◦ C and 87 ◦ C with both alternatives respectively [327]. There are also different options for filling the spacing between the cover and the PV cells. Honeycombs have been proposed to suppress natural convention and thus reduce convective heat losses [34]. TIM materials have been successfully applied to ST collectors, and it is believed their translucent properties are sufficiently good not to appreciably degrade PV cell performance [34]. Alternatively, some investigators [107,317] studied different options for the gas encapsulated between the cover and the PV cells and concluded that the use of inert gases is particularly promising as the convective heat loss on the top surface is significantly reduced; in the case of argon, the heat transfer coefficient is close to 30% lower than the equivalent for air. This leads to an improvement in the overall heat loss coefficient of around 4.8% for argon. 3.1.2. Thermal absorber As detailed in Section 2.2.1, the most widely studied thermal absorber configuration in water-based PV-T collectors is that of parallel copper tubes (sheet-and-tube), which is also the one used most commonly in commercially-available PV-T collectors [91]. In this configuration, the amount of heat that can be extracted, and thus the overall efficiency that can be achieved, depends upon the W/D ratio (where W is the distance between the pipes and D is the pipe diameter), the collector fin efficiency, and the tube bonding quality [34,72,125]. Consequently, several authors have made efforts to optimize the design of PV-T collectors by paying attention to these design aspects [120,122,125]. Fig. 18. Most common configurations for PV-T collector glazing. Figure reproduced based on Aste et al. [36] with permission from Elsevier (Copyright 2014 Elsevier). Fig. 19. Thermal and electrical efficiencies of uncovered and covered PV-T collectors ( G is the solar irradiance in W/m 2 ). Figure reproduced based on Zondag [34]. Fig. 20. Convection coefficients as a function of the thickness of the gap be - tween the glazing and PV module for different gases. Figure reproduced based on Antonanzas et al. [317]. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 21 Huang et al. [313] studied sheet-and-tube collectors made of different materials, such as extruded sheet-and-tube aluminium or copper tubes attached with thermally conductive adhesive to an aluminium plate, concluding that their performance is not satisfactory. Alternatively, they designed a corrugated collecting plate made of polycarbonate material to improve heat transfer, and concluded, agreeing with other studies [125, 328], that to enhance the energy performance of the PV-T collector, the absorber plate should be in direct thermal contact with the PV cells, using it as the base plate of the PV cells. Poor thermal contact results in poorer heat transfer and higher PV cell temperatures, which leads to poor electrical efficiency and, over longer periods, thermal degradation of the PV cells. Previous research reported that improvements to this thermal contact resulted in a 10 ◦ C reduction in the PV cell temperature and thus a 6 – 8% increase in electrical efficiency [121]. The heat transfer between the cooling fluid and the thermal absorber can be enhanced by increasing the contact area and by creating turbu - lence. Concerning the former, some investigators added a graphite layer with several recesses to fit the serpentine tube, to enhance the heat transfer between the pipes and thus increase heat transfer [329], while for creating turbulence, in liquid-based PV-T collectors, twisted tapes, perforated tapes, wire coils, inserts/baffle plates, grooves, or internally finned tubes have been used [330]. However, surface modifications and turbulence promoters lead to higher pressure drops, thus increasing the pumping energy consumption [314]. Any heat transfer enhancement is only promising if the gain is larger than this parasitic power increase. A better convective heat transfer between the coolant and the channels can also be achieved with reduced pipe diameter, D , and an increased number of channels per unit width (e.g., shorter W ) [331, 332]. In particular, when the W/D ratio decreases, the PV-T collector efficiency increases. The main limitation is the increase in costs and weight of the PV-T collector as the number of channels increases [36]. Typical values of the W/D ratio for sheet-and-tube collectors are 6 – 10. Alternatively, roll-bond absorbers with thin-film PV cells have been proposed (Design (b) in Fig. 21), increasing the number of pipes to 30, with a pipe distance of 0.02 m [333], along with aluminium roll-bond designs with fractal shape (FracTherm ® heat exchanger) [334,335], reporting 87% of global efficiency in controlled conditions, with a maximum thermal efficiency > 75% [334]. Similar results are found in another experimental analysis with a covered roll-bond PV-T collector, where 79% thermal efficiency was measured under PV cell operation, when the mean fluid temperature is equal to the ambient temperature, with a corresponding electrical efficiency of 8.7% [336]. He et al. [72] concluded that the collector fin efficiency and the tube-bonding quality (key design factors) can be improved using a flat-box design (Design (a) in Fig. 21). This design has been explored by several authors [72,122,134,313,337 – 341], with which the W/D ratio can be reduced to 1 when square channels are used [313], improving the fin efficiency and bonding quality, and thus significantly increasing the heat transfer area between the absorber plate and the cooling fluid. Different channel sizes have been considered: 6 × 4 mm ( W × H ) [313], 28 × 5 mm [342], 20 × 10 mm [343], or 10 × 10 mm [344], based on the results of a parametric analysis undertaken in previous research [339], which concluded that, to collect more than 90% of the energy, the collector should have a fluid layer thickness smaller than 10 mm. A numerical analysis showed that increasing the number of chan - nels from 1 to 30 improved the thermal efficiency from 42% to 49%, while the PV cell temperature decreased from 51 ◦ C to 46 ◦ C, therefore increasing the electrical efficiency [345]. This was attributed to the in - crease in the heat transfer area, so more heat can be extracted [122, 345]. In this line, the experimental results of a 20 × 10 mm covered flat-box design [343] showed daily average thermal efficiencies of 38 – 49% (higher in summer), and electrical efficiencies of 10 – 12% (higher in winter). More recent research by the authors [122] analysed 26 alternative thermal absorber designs, and the results showed that, for a constant flow rate, smaller channels lead to higher thermal effi - ciencies. This is attributed to the higher water velocity through the channels given the smaller hydraulic diameters, which leads to higher convective heat transfer coefficients. In particular, a flat-box design with 3 × 2 mm 2 rectangular channels appears to be a particularly promising alternative, achieving 4% higher optical efficiency and 15% lower linear heat-loss coefficient compared to a commercial copper sheet-and-tube PV-T collector, a while also lowering the weight (by 9%) and invest - ment cost (by 21%) of the collector. Alternatively, V-shaped grooves and/or honeycomb grooves (e.g., see Designs (c) and (d) in Fig. 21) have been proposed as means for increasing the heat transfer between the fluid and the PV layer [41,44, 346]. An experimental analysis of a polypropylene honeycomb PV-T prototype showed optical efficiencies of 0.51 without electricity gener - ation or 0.39 with electricity generation [346]. Some of these studies [72,134,337] considered extruded aluminium alloy as the thermal absorber material; while in others [122,313,338, 339], polycarbonate (PC) was proposed to lower the cost and weight of the PV-T unit. The adoption of a copolymer absorber has several ad - vantages such as a reduction in weight and thus easier installation, a simplified manufacturing process, and a lower investment cost [122, 347]. In this context, several authors [35,344] concluded that some polymeric materials, such as PC, have several properties that make them an interesting option for PV-T collectors, such as low density, mechan - ical strength, no special surface treatment required, no corrosion, ease of manufacturing at mass production as there are fewer components to assemble, and lower production cost because the material is generally cheaper and the manufacturing time is reduced. Other advantages are the freedom they offer in terms of design, as they can acquire layouts that would be very difficult and expensive using conventional materials, and the possibility to bring economies of scale to bear through, for example, extrusion processes which allow mass-production of complex geometries in lengths of kilometres [348]. Furthermore, previous LCA results [349] indicated that polymeric solar collectors appear as best as regards climatic and environmental performance when they are expressed in terms of the IPCC 100a indicator and the Ecoindicator 99, H/A indicator, respectively. Nonetheless, there are also some disadvantages associated with the use of polymeric materials [35,341], such as low thermal conductivity, large thermal expansion, and limited-service temperature. Specifically, the ideal polymer for this application should have the following prop - erties: UV protection, high thermal conductivity, water-resistant and glycol-resistant, good thermal range of utilization (   10/ + 150 ◦ C), good mechanical strength, and be chemically stable [338,339,344]. To overcome the low thermal conductivity, PV-T collector geometries can be optimized to ensure homogenous flow and maximize the contact area between the absorber and the heat transfer fluid [348]. Previous work [122] showed that a PC flat-box design with small channels (3 × 2 mm) experiences lower von Mises stress than a copper sheet-and-tube col - lector ( < 13% vs . 64% of the material ’ s yield stress), which is attributed to the larger thermal expansion of the PC thermal absorber, so this type of polymeric PV-T collectors are not expected to suffer higher strains Fig. 21. Different structures of the thermal absorber to increase heat transfer [36,42,44]. Figure reproduced based on Pang et al. [42] with permission from Elsevier (Copyright 2020 Elsevier). M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 22 than copper PV-T collectors. Loading the polymer with additives can also improve its thermal conductivity [350,351]. However, recent studies have concluded that the small improvement in the thermal performance of a polymeric flat-box PV-T collector might not outweigh the higher complexity and costs of loading the polymer with additives [122]. Another thermal absorber design proposed by Xu et al. [352] consists of two parallel thin flat-plate metal sheets, one of which is extruded by machinery mould to form arrays of mini corrugations, while the other one is attached beneath the PV cells. Both sheets are laser-welded together to form turbulent flow channels. The laboratory testing re - sults showed that this PV-T collector can achieve an electrical efficiency of 17% and a thermal efficiency of nearly 65% at standard testing conditions (STC). The best manufacturing process that would ensure the ideal thermal contact between the thermal absorber and the fluid is to laminate the whole package of the top cover, PV cells, and a flat absorber together in one step [353]. In this case, an electrically insulating foil can be inter - posed between the PV cell and the absorber in the lamination process, or an electrically insulating coating can be applied to the absorber ’ s top surface [34]. Recent research showed that laminating the solar cells directly to a copper metal thermal absorber can reduce the thermal resistance by around 10% thanks to the effective heat transfer from the PV cells to the heat transfer fluid [354]. Another solution is to deposit the PV material directly on the absorber, with an insulating coating or galvanic separation between cells, as applied to the a-Si cells. 3.1.3. PV surface The effective utilization of the surface area of a collector that is exposed to solar radiation is of primary importance and interest. When the PV cells are placed above the thermal absorber section to achieve high electrical performance, the presence of the cells leads to a reduction of the heat flux into the collector fluid circuit, reducing the thermal efficiency [132]. Previous studies [27,328,355] investigated the trade-off between larger coverage areas for increased electricity gener - ation and smaller coverage areas when the priority is hot water pro - duction. The simulation results of a validated dynamic system model showed that the higher the covering factor and the glazing trans - missivity, the better the overall performance [325]. Zakharchenko et al. [328] concluded that the solar PV cells area should be smaller than the absorber size, and that the PV cells should be located where the coolant enters the collector. This is due to the reduction of the heat flux to the solar collector when the PV cells are located above the absorber, thus reducing the collector ’ s thermal effi - ciency. Furthermore, as the coolant/fluid ’ s temperature increases, the rate of heat extraction from the PV cells. As a consequence, as the area covered with PV cells increases, the panel cooling decreases, impairing one of the core advantages of hybrid PV-T or conventional PV systems [328]. Other studies [355] concluded that depending on the user needs, PV-T collectors should be partially covered by PV cells when the priority is hot water production or fully covered when the priority is electricity generation. More recent research [27] concluded that for the case of the UK, complete coverage of the solar collector with PV cells leads to the coverage of a higher fraction of the annual electricity demand while maximizing the CO 2 emission savings. In addition, economic assess - ments of PV-T collectors with different covering factors showed that the lowest payback time and levelized production costs are achieved by fully covered collectors [91]. In summary, research to-date has shown that partially covered col - lectors can achieve better thermal efficiencies (with the PV cells located near the collector fluid inlet), while fully covered PV-T collectors enable maximum electricity generation but lower thermal yields. However, one should bear in mind that this trade-off is sensitive to the solar and environmental conditions at the geographical location of the installa - tion, and that the overall preferred designs require that the relative value of the electrical and thermal outputs are known. 3.1.4. Phase-change materials Increasing efforts are being made in the context of integrating PCMs with PV cells and modules. In early work, investigators considered the integration of PCMs with PV cells (PV-PCM) as a solution for limiting the temperature rise in BIPV systems [356]. If designed appropriately, PCMs can offer not only temperature reduction of PV cells, but also compact thermal storage with a stable temperature [357]. Previous work was extensively focussed on using PCMs only for the thermal regulation of PV cells [239], in which the electrical output is the sole design target [358]. The typical design of such PV-PCM systems is by integrating PCMs at the rear side of PV cells. The high thermal storage capacity of PCMs can shave the peak temperature of PV cells, leading to a more stable and flatter operation temperature, which is thus beneficial for efficiency and lifetime. Paraffin wax with melting temperatures around 25 – 35 ◦ C has been extensively employed in PV-PCM systems [239,359 – 362]. It was reported that the peak temperature drop of PV panels can be as high as 20 ◦ C [363, 364], and an average electrical efficiency improvement of around 1 – 8% is attainable [365,366]. Other studies [367] used a water-saturated micro - encapsulated PCM layer as a passive thermal management medium for a BIPV panel. However, as the purpose of the above studies was to limit the temperature rise of PV cells, the phase-transition temperature of the applied PCMs was typically close to ambient temperature and thus the stored thermal energy was of low value. More recently, researchers explored the possibilities of using PCMs for both electrical and thermal performance improvements of PV-T systems, forming the so-called PV-T-PCM systems. The design consid - erations of such systems are very similar to those in PV-PCM systems, but the desired phase-transition temperature could be higher to increase the usefulness of the collected heat. Studies observed that with an additional stable useful thermal output, the electrical efficiency of the PV-T col - lector can also be improved when integrating with PCMs. Some authors [368] proposed a PV-T-PCM hot water system. Numerical results showed that, by including an appropriate PCM in an optimized system, the PV cell output can be increased by typically 9% with an average water temperature rise of 20 ◦ C. Experiments on PV-T-PCM collectors under clear sunny days at Mashhad (Iran) [369] showed that the elec - trical efficiency is improved by about 10% with additional thermal output at temperatures of 40 – 50 ◦ C accounting for around 5.5 × the electrical output. In another work [370], it was found that the PV-T-PCM collector performed better in comparison with conventional PV-T col - lectors in terms of electrical efficiency, but the maximum thermal effi - ciency was slightly lower. Other authors [371] conducted experimental comparisons of a PV-T-PCM hot water system and a standard PV-T hot water system. Using fatty acid eutectic, capric-palmitic as the PCM, it was found that the PV-T-PCM system was able to maintain the water at a higher temperature for an extended period of time (by 100%). Building-integrated PV-T-PCM collectors emerge as a promising technology for ventilation and space heating. A ceiling ventilation sys - tem integrated with a PV-T-PCM collector was proposed [372], where the air was used as the heat transfer medium between the PV cells and the two PCM layers. The indoor thermal comfort of the building was significantly improved with a maximum air temperature rise of 23 ◦ C. Low-temperature PCMs are typically characterized by their low thermal conductivity, which limits the heat transfer performance for charging and discharging heat, further influencing both the thermal and electrical performance of PV-T-PCM collectors. Adding nanoparticles with high thermal conductivity into a PCM enhances its heat transfer performance, forming the so-called nano-enhanced PCM (NePCM). Several studies have explored the performance potential of PV-T-NePCM using different nanoparticles, including SiC [373,374], graphene nano - platelets (GNP) [375], Al 2 O 3 [376,377], multi-walled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) [378], or CuO [379], as summarized in Table 6. Although the performance improvement of PV-T-NePCM collectors compared to PV-T-PCM, PV-T and PV panels varies in different studies and operation conditions, previous work demonstrated that adding nanoparticles into the PCMs can improve the thermal and electrical efficiencies, so this has M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 23 emerged as a promising direction. In practice, the selection of the appropriate PCMs depends on many factors, including the desired temperature of thermal output, weather conditions, or weighting between electrical and thermal efficiencies. Trade-offs are always needed between the thermal and electrical out - puts. It is estimated that PV-T-PCM collectors have a TRL of around 5 – 6 without any PV-T-PCM collector manufacturer yet. As the integration of PCMs increases the capital costs and system complexity of PV-T collec - tors compared to conventional PV-T collectors without PCMs, the cost- competitiveness of PV-T-PCM collectors needs to be improved to make them practically more attractive. 3.1.5. Aerogels Aerogels are an emerging material in the field of PV-T technology that have been attracting significant attention in other research fields, such as building thermal-insulation windows [380], solar-thermal receivers [381], space launch applications [382]. Highly-transparent silica aero - gels are a type of emerging thermal insulation material capable of reducing the heat loss of PV-T collectors [383]. Silica aerogel materials have low thermal conductivities and high transmittance (96% [383] and > 80% [384], respectively). The highly-transparent aerogel layer is usu - ally added on the top surface of a PV-T collector to reduce the heat loss with a slight impact on the electrical efficiency, as shown in Fig. 22. The modelling work by Wu et al. [385] shows that the heat loss of a PV-T collector covered with a 20-mm-thick silica aerogel layer is only 140 W/m 2 when the operating temperature is 70 ◦ C, which is significantly smaller than that of a conventional covered PV-T collector (heat loss of 300 W/m 2 ). Therefore, the thermal efficiency of the aerogel-glazing PV-T collector is significantly improved, by 46%. The electrical efficiency of the aerogel-glazing PV-T collector is similar to that of a covered PV-T collector, as the transmittance of the aerogel layer is close to that of the glass layer (see Table 7). Overall, the exergy efficiency is improved by 17%, while the total cost of the aerogel-glazing PV-T collector is only 1.4% higher than the conventional covered PV-T collector [385]. An aerogel-glazed PV-T collector was built and tested by Weinstein et al. [383]. The 10-mm-thick aerogel layer had a solar-weighted transmittance of 96%, which is higher than the glass transmittance normally used for PV-T collectors, and low thermal conductivity (see Table 7), thus effectively reducing heat losses, especially at high oper - ating temperatures. The compressive and flexural strength of the silica aerogel were around 3 MPa and 0.2 MPa, which is strong enough for PV-T applications. Comprehensive mathematical models of aerogel-glazed PV-T collectors were introduced by Du et al. [386] and Wen et al. [387]. It is expected that the rapid development of aerogel technology will promote the further development of high-performance PV-T technologies. 3.2. Next-generation PV cell technology The PV cells used in all current, commercially available PV-T col - lector products, but also more state-of-the-art collectors currently under development, are designed for PV (i.e., pure electricity-generation) ap - plications, such that their optical and electrical designs (e.g., surface structure) and fabrication methods are optimized to maximize electrical generation without any consideration to thermal generation. This is beneficial for PV applications, but detrimental when used in PV-T col - lectors, as the thermal energy recovered (and, ultimately, delivered) by the latter will also have a value. Secondly, there is a further design conflict between the electrical and thermal performance of PV-T col - lectors, and a trade-off is needed depending on the end-user needs and the local environmental and economic conditions. Specifically, as mentioned in Section 1.2, the efficiency of PV cells decreases with temperature, so the cooling fluid of the PV-T collectors should be kept at a lower temperature when the electrical output is the main priority. This constraint for the heat transfer fluid to exit the collector at low tem - peratures imposes a limit on its posterior use for heating purposes. On the contrary, if the PV-T collectors are operated at higher fluid tem - peratures, then the electrical efficiency decreases. Therefore, there is a design conflict between the electrical and thermal performance of hybrid PV-T collectors, and a trade-off is needed depending on the end- user needs and the local solar and environmental conditions. In an attempt to solve this conflict, different types of next-generation PV cell technologies have been analysed for their integration in PV-T collectors, Table 6 Summary of recent studies on PV-T-NePCM systems. PCM Nanoparticles Year Nature of work a Performance improvement Ref. Paraffin wax SiC (0 – 4 wt%) 2017 Exp Thermal efficiency: 35%, 51%, 72%; electrical efficiency: 10%, 12%, 14% for PV-T, PV-T-PCM and PV- T-NePCM collectors, respectively [373] Paraffin wax RT24 SiC (0 – 4 wt%) 2018 Exp Electrical efficiency: 13%, 8% for PV-T collectors and PV panels, respectively [374] Paraffin wax GNP (20 wt%) 2020 Theo Thermal efficiency: 13%, 39% at 70 ◦ C; electrical efficiency: 13, 14% for PV-T and PV-T-NePCM collectors, respectively [375] Paraffin wax RT35 Al 2 O 3 (0.04 vol%) 2021 Theo The thermal and electrical efficiencies of the PV-T-NePCM collector reached 70% and 13%, which is 26% and 0.2% higher than the PV-T collector, respectively [377] Paraffin wax RT44HC MWCNT (0.009 wt %) 2021 Exp Maximum energy efficiency: 75%, 83%, 85%; maximum exergy efficiency: 10%, 11%, 13% for PV-T, PV-T-PCM and PV-T-NePCM collectors, respectively [378] Paraffin wax RT35HC Al 2 O 3 2021 Theo Electrical efficiency: 13% for PV-T-PCM and PV-T-NePCM collectors; thermal efficiency enhanced by ~3% [376] Paraffin wax RT42 CuO (1 wt%) 2022 Exp Thermal efficiency: 63%, 66%, 69%; electrical efficiency: 12%, 13%, 13% for PV-T, PV-T-PCM and PV- T-NePCM collectors, respectively [379] a Exp: experimental; Theo: theoretical Fig. 22. Schematic of a PV-T collector covered with a highly-transparent aer - ogel layer [385]. Table 7 Properties of typical aerogels applied to PV-T collectors. Aerogel material Transmittance Thermal conductivity (W/m K) Thickness (mm) Ref. Silica 96% 0.055 10 [383] Silica 87 – 96% ~0.03 10 – 40 [385] Silica N/A 0.02 50 [386] Silica N/A 0.02 10 – 70 [387] M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 24 including innovative PV cell technologies, as detailed below. 3.2.1. Performance aspects Silicon technologies hold the largest market share by a large margin (94% in 2019 [388]) with a large number of manufacturers mainly based in China, followed by cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin-film prin - cipally manufactured by First Solar, then copper indium gallium sele - nide (CIGS) principally manufactured by Solar Frontier. Fig. 23(a) shows the relative power output ( P ( T )) for a series of different solar cell technologies, two variants of c-Si (the present market leader), CIGS, silicon heterojunction (SHJ) (a high-performance variant of c-Si), gallium arsenide (GaAs) and CdTe. All the cells lose power with increased temperature, but the degree to which power is lost depends on some fundamental cell properties that can help guide the choice of a PV- T system (see Section 1.2). Illustrative temperature dependencies for a silicon solar cell are shown in Fig. 23(b). The temperature coefficient of power ( β Pmax ) is given by the gradient of the lines shown in Fig. 23(b). Hence different silicon PV technologies can exhibit quite different temperature coefficients, indicated by the data shown in Fig. 24, where the SHJ cell achieves the lowest temperature coefficient due to an elevated cell voltage. Some studies [28] concluded that the thermal performance of PV-T collectors based on c-Si cells is comparable to that of a-Si cells, while others [71,135]) obtained higher thermal efficiencies for water-based PV-T collectors with a-Si (~60% at zero reduced temperature) than for PV-T collectors with pc-Si (~55% at zero reduced temperature). Thin-film technologies, such as hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si: H), appear as an interesting alternative thanks to their low manufacturing costs (about 1.5 USD/kW p ), low embodied energy per watt peak [393], less brittle and easiness to be attached to different surfaces including printable laminate. However, the electrical efficiency is lower (around 5 – 7%) [127,394] and it uses heavy metals that reduce its usage [395]. This shows that so far there are discrepancies about which PV cell type is better to use in a PV-T collector. It is believed that the choice should be made according to the specific end-user needs, being inter - esting the use of a-Si when high thermal efficiency is required, while when the main priority is electricity generation, pc-Si can be a more suitable option. Previous authors [328] concluded that the use of con - ventional PV cells is not appropriate for their integration in PV-T col - lectors as they have poor thermal conductivity in the rear surface which hinders the efficient heat extraction by the solar collectors. Hence, a modification of the commercial PV panel is needed to provide the col - lector with a good substrate material such as aluminium. 3.2.2. Tandem cells A popular and nowadays well-understood means for augmenting the efficiency of a PV cell is to use several solar cells with different band- gaps to selectively absorb different parts of the solar spectrum. This preserves a larger fraction of the free energy in the incident sunlight and uniquely for PV-T collectors also offers the possibility of directing light that is unproductive for electrical power generation to a thermal absorber. Three configurations of this approach are shown in Fig. 25. The monolithic and multi-terminal approaches make use of the property that a semiconductor becomes comparatively transparent for photon energies below the band-gap by cascading the band-gap energy from high energy to low naturally sorts photons into the appropriate sub-cells. In the case of the spectrum splitting configuration, the sorting of photons is achieved using a dichroic mirror, allowing long- wavelength photons to pass through while directing shorter wave - length photons to a suitable low band-gap solar cell. To evaluate the performance of these two separate approaches we Fig. 23. (a) Relative power loss with temperature for different solar cell technologies. All lie between the boundaries shown by dotted lines of -0.1%/K and -0.5%/K; data from Refs. [389 – 391]. (b) Dependency of J sc , FF , V oc and efficiency for an early silicon PV cell; figure reproduced from Green [392]. Fig. 24. Temperature coefficients of single-junction solar cells as a function of band-gap energy. Data from Refs. [389,390]. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 25 note that Configurations (b) and (c) in Fig. 25 are geometrical permu - tations of the same approach and have similar limiting efficiencies. The only difference is that the opportunity for radiative coupling between sub-cells, whereby any radiative emission from the high-gap cell through Process (4) in Fig. 2(b) is lost in the case of the spectrum splitting Configuration (c) of Fig. 25, whereas it is transmitted into lower-lying junctions [396] in: (a) the monolithic; and (b) multi-terminal tandem configurations shown in Fig. 25. The efficiency for monolithic and multi-terminal tandems is plotted in Fig. 26 along with the two limiting cases for the solar cell configu - ration depicted in Fig. 2(c): (i) where only light in the semiconductor is absorbed or (ii) where the full solar spectrum is absorbed. In these cal - culations, the cell is maintained at 300 K, hence only the thermal gen - eration varies depending on whether solar absorption only takes place in the semiconductor (Fig. 26(i)) or the full solar spectrum is absorbed (Fig. 26(ii)). In the case of semiconductor absorption only (Fig. 26(i)), similar peak electrical efficiencies can be obtained with either high or low thermal generation. With full solar absorption (Fig. 26(ii)) the peak electrical efficiency will always coincide with the minimum electrical generation. 3.3. Selective coatings Another way to enhance the energy performance of PV-T collectors is to maximize the solar irradiance harnessed through the application of coat - ings on the absorber surface [314,315]. Conventional solar thermal col - lectors are carefully engineered to have strong absorptivity for solar wavelengths yet minimal emissivity at the operating thermal wavelengths, typically > 7 μ m [397]. As discussed in Section 1.2, silicon PV cells have strong absorptivity from UV to mid-IR, but from wavelengths larger than 5 μ m, the emissivity of the solar module is dominated by the module glass [29]. Fig. 27 shows the absorptivity and emissivity from a silicon PV panel with cover glass, unencapsulated, confirming the high emissivity at wavelengths where radiative loss at 60 ◦ C will take place [22]. These losses can be mitigated by using low-emissivity coatings, similar to those used on energy-efficient windows [398]. Typically these coatings are made from transparent conducting oxides (TCOs) where reflectivity is high above the plasma frequency for example indium tin oxide (ITO) and aluminium zinc oxide (AZO) [399,400]. Applying an AZO film onto a double-glazed flat-plate collector achieved a thermal emissivity of 0.3 yet retaining a solar transmittance of 0.85 [401]. A more recent multi-layered coating achieved an emissivity of 0.13 and solar transmittance > 0.8 [402]. TCOs have a much higher transmittance compared to silver-based coatings [401], typical films used in an effi - cient glazing are In 2 O 3 :Sn (ITO), TiO 2 :Nb, ZnO:Al [403]. The consequences of controlling the PV-T collector emissivity are dramatic. Fig. 28 shows the projected annual thermal yield from different configurations of PV-T collectors with different thermal emis - sivities and module filling compared to a standard ETC. To reach high- temperature applications, such as air-conditioning using absorption chillers, achieving low emissivity is critical. The PV-T collector heat evacuation then becomes a critical factor to reduce convective thermal losses [22]. Optical coatings can also be used to control the colour of a PV panel, although this can only be achieved by reflecting what would otherwise be productive sunlight from the PV-T collector back towards the observer [404]. Normally, PV-T collectors are configured for optimum electrical and thermal outputs, but in the case of BIPV-T systems, the visual appeal of the system becomes an important consideration so impaired electrical and thermal performance might be tolerable [405]. 3.4. Spectral splitting The fundamental aim of spectral splitting technology is to harvest solar energy at its highest potential [406,407]. Thus, from a theoretical perspective, spectral splitting fundamentally shifts the goalpost from maximizing the energetic efficiency of a single element to maximizing the exergetic efficiency of the system. At the ideal limit (i.e., neglecting losses and costs), this would lead to a design where the solar spectrum would be split into an infinite number of bands with a corresponding number of receivers to optimally convert each band to useful energy, as indicated in Fig. 29. Neglecting losses, this type of system can approach 100% exergetic efficiency if all of the incoming solar energy were to be converted into electricity (e.g., with each receiver being a PV cell with a perfectly matching band-gap). In reality, of course, pursuing this approach would likely lead to very low exergetic efficiency since it would be plagued with optical and electrical losses. Additionally, con - verting the longest wavelengths of the solar spectrum into electricity is of dubious marginal benefit since the practical efficiency and open-circuit voltages of IR PV cells decreases considerably (i.e., germanium cells are ~15% efficiency and have an open circuit voltage of only ~500 mV [408]). Thus, rather than an infinite number, most of the proposed spectral splitting designs from the literature target 1 to 3 ‘splits ’ [409,410]. Additionally, in a PV-T beam splitting design, the longer wavelengths (e.g., > 1.1 μ m, longer than the band-gap of Si cells) are typically lumped together and sent to a thermal receiver. Given the aim of maximizing exergetic efficiency, spectral splitting systems often (but not always) employ optical concentration to enable the thermal receiver to operate at higher temperatures (targeting higher thermodynamic quality thermal outputs) than would be possible Fig. 25. Three configurations of a multi-junction solar cell: (a) monolithic series-connected tandem; (b) multi-terminal mechanical stack tandem; and (c) spec - trum splitting. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 26 without optical concentration. A spectral splitting system makes this strategy viable since the thermal receiver and PV receiver(s) are typi - cally physically separated so they can be considered as ‘thermally decoupled ’ . That is, since they are uncoupled, operating the thermal receiver at elevated temperatures does not necessarily have a detri - mental impact on PV cell performance in a beam-splitting system. Fig. 26. Limiting iso-efficiency contour plots showing four permutations of monolithic or multi-terminal mechanical stack double junction solar cells. The plots are overlayed with the thermal generation that takes place either in the case of: (i) semiconductor absorption only; or (ii) full solar absorption. Fig. 27. Experimentally measured emissivity data for different permutations of a PV cell with and without module cover glass and low-emissivity coatings. Reprinted from Mellor et al. [22] under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC-BY 4.0) license. Fig. 28. Projected thermal yield per unit of collector area, as a function of the fluid delivery temperature, from a PV-T collector located in the Mediterranean (Athens) with different emissivity and collector filling: air, Argon or vacuum. Reprinted from Mellor et al. [22] under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC-BY 4.0) license. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 27 Harvesting the solar spectrum at its highest potential is motivating and challenging, so numerous approaches have been devised in the past few decades. These approaches can be broken down into a few major categories, which include liquid filters, dichroic mirrors/filters, holo - graphic filters, refraction/prisms, luminescent/fluorescent materials, and the utilization of intrinsic PV material transmission/reflection. 3.4.1. Solid spectral splitters As one of the oldest optical elements, a prism can split up the solar spectrum. Since a prism splits light laterally, much like Fig. 29, a simple design can be envisioned in which PV cells and/or thermal receivers would simply be placed at the appropriate location to collect their portion of the dispersed light. While this seems relatively straightfor - ward, it requires rotational tracking and some optimization to avoid overlap of the spectral band with the PV band-gap energies [411,412]. A limitation of this approach is that spatial separation for each part of the spectrum is limited. However, this can be mitigated by collecting light over a larger area by using a saw tooth design rotational tracking [413]. PV-only panel studies have been conducted for linear focus systems (with concentration ratios of > 100 × ), which achieved electrical con - version efficiencies of up to 60% [414]. As an example, some authors used an optimized plastic prismatic structure (a curved sawtooth) to split the solar spectrum into three parts, for cells with short, medium, and long band-gaps [415]. They found that with this design it is possible to send 91% of the 400 – 730 nm band to a gallium arsenide cell, 76% of the 730 – 1000 to a silicon cell, and 71% of the 1000 – 1350 nm band to the germanium cell [415]. This type of system is relatively easily con - verted to a PV-T design by replacing the lowest efficiency or highest cost (e.g., any non-silicon) PV cells with a thermal receiver. Another solid material for spectral splitting is selectively absorbing glass. A simple configuration for silicon-based PV cells is to place a coloured glass (which absorbs short wavelengths) before the cells. If the coloured glass has a pure fluid like water flowing over it, such as in Mojiri et al. [416], this design represents a robust and cost-effective PV-T system that can be employed with or without concentrating op - tics to pre-filter out all the unused portions of the solar spectrum before they hit the PV cell. 3.4.2. Liquid spectral splitters All inorganic (e.g., water and ionic liquids) and organic (e.g., natural oils and synthetic heat transfer fluids) liquids exhibit some amount of spectral selectivity since their optical properties are not constant over the whole electromagnetic spectrum. However, the ideal spectral splitting liquid would provide both good thermophysical properties and optical properties which match with a PV cell. Intriguingly, pure water is quite close to the ideal. As shown in Fig. 30, water provides a good match with silicon solar cells (i.e., it absorbs IR and a bit of UV, but it is transparent to the visible spectrum). The long-wavelength absorption of water is due to the stretching and bending modes of hydrogen bonds between the water atoms [417]. Fig. 30 shows that the key non-ideality of this approach is that it is nearly impossible to achieve a sharp spectral splitting curve. That is, the sharp, square-shaped ideal Si PV filter curve shown in Fig. 30 is impossible to achieve with a real fluid. In terms of performance, this means that neither the PV cells nor the thermal receiver will receive the full, ideal spectrum. Imprecise spectral splitting is not a major loss for the thermal receiver since it should be able to absorb well outside of the ideal range but can significantly hurt the performance of the PV cells. Water is intriguing because of its relatively low cost ( < 1 USD/L), higher stability, and good thermal properties for heat extraction. In contrast, while oils and heat transfer fluids can provide slightly better selective optical properties for a PV-T system (see Fig. 30), they are more expensive (e.g., > 1 USD/L) and much less stable when exposed directly to ultraviolet radiation [418]. This is because they include organic bonds such as carbon – carbon bonds and carbon-oxygen (i.e., single bonds) which are weaker than the oxygen-hydrogen bonds of pure water, ~350 kJ/mol compared to 460 kJ/mol [417]. The relative sta - bility of these fluids when exposed to sunlight is apparent when comparing these bond energies are compared to the Plank – Einstein relation for the energy carried by incoming light (converting to a kJ/mol basis) [417]: E = hc λ = 6 . 63 × 10   37 ( kJ s ) 3 . 0 × 10 17   nm s ) 6 . 02 × 10 23   mol   1 ) λ (3.8) Rearranging to solve for the cut-off wavelength which has enough energy to break bonds gives: λ = 1 . 2 × 10 5 ( kJ nm / mol ) E ( kJ / mol ) (3.9) Thus, by substituting E = 350 kJ/mol and 460 kJ/mol into (Eq. (3.9), it can be realized that UV light of 340 nm and shorter has enough energy to break organic bonds, while it takes 260 nm UV light to break the stronger hydrogen-oxygen bonds of water. For reference, 3.7% of the energy in the extra-terrestrial spectrum and 0.8% of the energy in the AM1.5 spectrum is ≤ 340 nm and shorter. In contrast, only 0.27% of the extra-terrestrial spectrum and a negligible amount of the AM1.5 spec - trum is ≤ 260 nm. Thus, aside from the challenges of selecting fluids with good optical properties and good thermal stability, organic fluids also need some form of protection from direct UV exposure to maintain Fig. 29. Generalized spectral splitting configurations with N receivers: (a) parallel; and (b) series/lateral. Note that several combinations of these general configurations have been used in the literature. Fig. 30. Absorbance of selected pure fluids compared to the spectrum of AM1.5 direct normal irradiance and to an ‘ideal ’ silicon PV-T filter. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 28 their stability in a PV-T system. 3.4.3. Dichroic mirrors/filters Dichroic mirrors use a stack of alternating layers of high and low refractive index materials (e.g., SiN x /SiO 2 [419]) to achieve selective reflection/transmission. As optical elements, these are essentially thin-film interferometers, wherein the incident beam is superimposed with itself to achieve destructive interference to suppress the propaga - tion of desired spectral bands. As such, these devices are essentially just extensions from Fabry and Perot ’ s original interferometer [420] which used a pair of partially reflecting mirrors to create interference fringes that can be used to analyse (or control) the spectral properties of light propagating through a system. Modern chemical vapour deposition and sputtering methods now allow nanometre-level control over each layer of the resulting thin film structure to ensure a sharp transition from high transmission to high reflection at the design ‘cut-off ’ wavelength(s). (Note: A similar approach is used in a distributed Bragg reflector when such layers are embedded inside a waveguide material). A dichroic mirror was employed in 2015 by Green et al . [421] to exceed 40.4 ± 2.8% efficiency with a design that split incoming concentrated light between a multi-junction cell and a silicon cell. The underlying physics of these types of thin film is that interference occurs when light partially reflects off layers which are roughly 1/4th of the thickness of the target incident wavelength. By stacking combina - tions of these quarter wavelength designs together, the resulting dichroic mirror can be designed to create a simple edge-pass/edge-stop filter or a band-stop/band-pass optical element (such as the one used in Green et al. [421]). Several companies offer stock and custom designs of these materials [422 – 424], but they are typically orders of magnitude too expensive (e.g., 1 × 10 5 to 1 × 10 6 USD/m 2 ) for PV-T collectors [425]. Ignoring their cost, nearly ideal optical properties can be ach - ieved through careful design. Thin-film software packages, such as OpenFilters or OptiLayer, use the needle optimization technique to specify the number of layers and the thickness of each layer for a given pair of dielectric materials [419,426,427]. Dichroic filters are often custom designed for many optical applications, such as metrology equipment and laser applications. Thus, while they have also been applied to PV-T systems before (as shown in Fig. 31(a), from Crisostomo et al. [419]), they have not been mass-produced for this application so their main drawback is cost. It is unclear if they can meet the cost re - quirements of solar collectors in the long term since they require very pure materials and (typically) hundreds of layers to be deposited with precise deposition techniques [295]. Thus, to date, these dichroic mir - rors have not yet proven viable for PV-T systems at commercial scales. On the other hand, dichroic mirrors are mass-produced for the architectural glazing market (a 40 Billion USD/year market by 2024 [428]). With these so-called ‘low-emissivity ’ windows, modern build - ings can reduce their solar heat gain (and indoor heat loss) without reducing the amount of natural daylight they receive. This feature is enabled by spectral splitting dichroic coatings deposited on the inner pane of a double or triple-glazed frame (which reflects all solar wave - lengths except the visible light) [425]. Given their ubiquitous use in high-efficiency buildings, dichroic-coated glass might also be mass-produced for PV-T products in the future. This would require two fundamental changes from today ’ s architectural glazing manufacturing processes: (a) broadening of the transmitted spectrum (perhaps requiring different materials and layer thicknesses) to shift the trans - mission window from about 450 to 750 nm to, say, 700 – 1100 nm band for Silicon cells [425]; and (b) use of low-iron or ‘solar glass ’ substrates (rather than typical window glass), which is less absorbing of these longer wavelengths. In terms of how dichroic mirrors can be employed in a PV-T collector, they can be used equally well as a “ heat mirror ” to reflect the longer wavelengths away from the PV cells (similar to a low-emissivity glass) or they can be designed to reflect the shorter wavelengths of sunlight to - wards PV cells. In either case, the primary cut-off is determined by the band-gap of the PV cell. If a bandpass/stop filter is used, a secondary cut- off can be employed on the short wavelength side (e.g., ~700 nm for silicon cells). A characteristic design of how dichroic mirrors could be configured in a CPV-T system is shown in Fig. 31(b). 3.4.4. Holographics Using slightly different principles, holographics can achieve the same splitting function as dichroic mirrors or filters. In a volume phase hologram, a permanent pattern is recorded by modifying the refractive index of a photosensitive material through (e.g., using a nickel-ion- doped photopolymer [429]). This enables a thin slab of material that selectively diffracts light with little absorption of light as it travels through the medium. Since most photosensitive materials only interact with a small spectral band, an edge-pass or band-pass filter requires several holograms to be layered together in a foil to achieve controlled transmission over a wider range. Holographic techniques were first applied to solar technologies through “ passive tracking ” devices in which multiple curved surfaces were utilized to “ switch ” among concentrator shapes designed for different angles of incidence. In one of the first examples of this, Bloss et al. [430] demonstrated the use of high-efficiency volume phase transmission holograms in which several holograms were produced at various recording angles in photosensitive (i.e., dichromate gelatine) plates. These were then encapsulated and the diffraction efficiency was found to be as high as 97%. Later studies have found even higher diffraction efficiencies, with scattering and optical losses, remarkably, under 0.2% [431]. Concerning using holographics in PV-T applications, like dichroics, the real challenge is cost-effectively creating a device that has broadband reflectivity (e.g., for 700 – 1,100 Fig. 31. Example dichroic mirror-based PV-T system: (a) plasma-enhanced chemical vapour deposition of SiN x /SiO 2 layers on a quartz substrate (using a Roth & Rau AK400 instrument); and (b) PV-T configuration where (concen - trated) short wavelengths are reflected out of the optical path towards PV cells. Images reprinted from Crisostomo et al. [419], with permission from Elsevier. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 29 nm for reflecting light towards Silicon PV cells). Both thin-film dichroics and holographics suffer from the high cost of ensuring manufacturing tolerances are tight enough to ensure sharp transitions in their trans - mission/reflections curves [432 – 434]. On the other hand, holographics have a few (potentially) major advantages over dichroics. Holographic foils are usually quite flexible, so they can be arbitrarily shaped and — once encapsulated — are also reportedly very stable to both ther - mal exposure (up to ~120 ◦ C) and UV-exposure [431]. In one interesting design [435], Cassegrainian concentrating optics (e.g., a mixture of refractive/reflective elements in a compact design like a telescope) were employed to redirect radiation off a primary hyperboloidal-shaped mirror onto a solar cell placed at the lower focal line. The longer wavelengths were then transmitted to an evacuated tube (thermal) absorber positioned at the upper focal line. Although this type of system requires high tracking accuracy, it is interesting because it has a low profile. A low-profile is desirable because it may lower the cost and it reduces wind loading requirements for the structural design of the system [436,437]. Ultimately, if the cost of the holographics can be equal to or lower than either the PV cell or the thermal receivers (in USD per m 2 ) it is possible to achieve a system-level cost reduction, since concentrated receivers typically produce higher conversion efficiencies. Another example of a solar holographic system was reported by Vorn - dran et al. [438]. For their design (shown in Fig. 32(a)), a holographic lens transmits the long wavelengths (without diffraction) to a parabolic mirror, which concentrates these wavelengths back onto an evacuated tube attached at the middle of the holographic foil. For the PV receiver, the holographic lens concentrates the short wavelengths (e.g., which have a peak of ~700 nm, as shown in Fig. 32(b)). The authors estimated that about 60% of the output power comes from the PV receiver and the balance comes from the thermal receiver. This resulted in overall hybrid conversion efficiency of ~18%. Researchers have also shown that spectral splitting holograms can be beneficial in non-concentrated configurations. Although not always referred to as PV-T designs, holograms have been proposed to serve as both space heating/daylighting and PV power generators [439,440]. These work by transmitting light low-angle winter sun while blocking high incidence angle summer sun (e.g., applicable mainly in latitudes above 25 ◦ ) [435]. Experimental systems of this type have found that holographics can reduce building heating costs, remarkably, by up to 50% [441]. As one example, Rosenberg patented a dual-film holographic device where the first hologram redirects the 400 – 700 nm band and the second hologram redirects near-infrared energy (i.e., 700 – 1,100 nm) [442]. When integrated into a waveguide plate, this design was found to work a wide range of incidence angles, enabling operation across most of the daylight hours (up to 11 h). The peak diffraction efficiency was re - ported as 65% and the PV receiver had an electrical conversion efficiency of just over 6% [442]. Despite the research inroads mentioned above, holographics have a TRL in the range of 5 – 7 because they have not been scaled up or deployed as commercialized PV-T systems. Future work in this area will include scaled-up demonstrations to prove stability, reli - ability, and performance along with some viable mechanisms for manufacturing cost reductions. 3.4.5. Luminescent splitters/concentrators A ‘luminescent ’ flat plate splitter/concentrator is created when quan - tum dots or organic dyes are embedded in a solar slab/substrate. As such, a luminescent optical element relies upon the scattering and/or absorption/ re-emission of small particles/molecules to selectively interact with the desired portion of the solar spectrum. If the transparent medium has a high refractive index (i.e., > 1.5), most of the scattered/emitted light will prop - agate at angles less than the critical angle for total internal reflection. Assuming multiple scattering absorption/re-emission events can be avoi - ded, much of the desired spectrum will be efficiently guided to the sidewalls for harvesting by the solar receiver. Thus, a typical luminescent system places PV cells around the edges of a luminescent slab — nominally in a square or circular configuration — with the PV cells chosen to match the band that is predominantly scattered or emitted by the embedded particles [443]. Depending on the aspect ratio and the losses in the system (e.g., ideally < 25%), the spectral irradiance at the sides walls will be higher than the incident, by a factor of 1 – 15 [443]. This essentially reduces the solar receiver area needed to harvest the same power output and, more subtly yields concentration without the need for tracking systems, both of which may enable cost reductions. An attractive feature of some luminescent concentrators is that they also down-convert (e.g., ‘split ’ high-energy photons into two or lower energy photons) or up-convert (e.g., ‘combine ’ low-energy photons via sequential excitation of electrons into an excited state) portions of the incident spectrum to make more of the solar spectrum match the PV cell [444,445]. In a recent prototype [446], lanthanide-doped surface-functionalized ionosilicas were embedded in poly(methyl meth - acrylate) (PMMA). This, in turn, was placed on the surface of a commercial Si-based PV panel for testing (as in Fig. 33) [446]. Luminescent concentrators for solar cell applications were first proposed in the mid-1970s, and have had numerous advances in the decades since then [447,448]. In selecting the dyes/scattering particles, one must make a considered trade-off between increasing the concen - tration of the embedded scatterers/emitters (i.e., higher utilization of the incident light) and the probability of subsequent re-absorption/scattering as the desired spectrum propagates towards the Fig. 32. (a) CPV-T collector design; and (b) calculated optical efficiency curves. Reused from Vorndran et al. [438], with permission from Wiley and Sons. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 30 edges of the slab. Re-absorption can significantly impact the perfor - mance of the system, particularly as the aspect ratio between the aper - ture area and the PV edge area becomes large. Another design choice comes from the fact that different scatterers/emitters can be combined inside the material to achieve broader spectral control, as was demon - strated by Goetzberger and Greube [449]. In another example [450], this concept was utilized to good effect for a PMMA slab containing two dyes (i.e., 0.01 wt.% Lumogen F Red305 and 0.003 wt.%. Fluorescence Yellow (CRS040) from Radiant Colour) [450]. This design achieved an experimental efficiency of just over 7% when GaAs cells were attached to it [450]. Although the research in luminescent concentrators has slowed down in recent years (according to a 2020 Google Scholar search by year), this type of optical element could still have the potential for further development in PV-T systems. Considering Fig. 33, if standard commercial Si modules are used below the luminescent slab, the concentrated light could be guided to thermal receivers (operating at elevated temperatures) at the sides or vice versa. 3.4.6. PV cell-based splitting Most PV cells (if made thin enough and assembled without an opaque metal backing) can serve as spectral splitting filters. That is, they will transmit the parts of the solar spectrum that they do not use for gener - ating electricity [451]. Transmissive PV cells are interesting for BIPV systems because they allow light (and heat) to transmit through them to the building occupants [230]. For example, CdTe thin-film cells are semi-transparent to the IR spectral region which can result in consid - erable energy saving for an office building with a relatively large window-to-wall ratio (i.e., ≥ 45%) [452]. In recent years, transmissive PV cells have also been applied to spectral-splitting PV-T collectors. In this configuration, the transmissive PV cells act as not only the elec - tricity generator, but also the spectral-splitting filter in the spectral-splitting PV-T collector. As an example, a transmissive triple-junction solar cell (AlGaInP/InAlGaAs/GaAs) was developed by Xu et al. [453], which can absorb light with a wavelength of less than 880 nm and is highly transparent (~80%) to the rest of light with a wavelength longer than 880 nm. This transmissive triple-junction solar cell was then applied to a spectral-splitting PV-T collector by the same research group [454]. The UV and visible light were absorbed by the triple-junction solar cell for electricity generation, while IR light passed through the PV cell and was absorbed by a thermal absorber to generate high-temperature thermal energy. The solar cells were cooled to below 110 ◦ C by additional active and passive cooling structures. Their nu - merical analysis showed that the triple-junction solar cell had a high efficiency of close to 44% for in-band light (300 – 873 nm). The efficiency and temperature of the thermal absorber were not stated by the authors. A recent prototype was built and tested in San Diego in 2019 [455], which is shown in Fig. 34. In this design, a spectral-splitting transmissive GaAs-substrate III-V triple-junction PV panel with cooling channels was installed in the focal position of a parabolic concentrator dish with a concentration ratio of 130. Their experimental results show that 53% of the solar energy incident on the PV-T collector was transmitted through the PV cells, 18% was dissipated as waste heat in the PV cells, 4% was converted to electricity by the PV cells, and 23% was lost to reflection. Although the electrical efficiency was not high, this experiment work has shown the feasibility and potential of transmissive solar cells to be used in spectral-splitting PV-T collectors. Another approach is to use the PV cells as a reflector, wherein any unused portions of the spectrum are bounced off a reflector behind the cell and redirected to a thermal receiver. This approach is also interesting since it may be possible to deposit PV materials onto curved surfaces, opening up a path toward concentrating PV reflectors. This approach was used in a recent study [456], in which it was reported that a concentration ratio of 60 was achieved in a non-imaging optical system. Abdelhamid et al. [456] reported a thermal efficiency of 37% at a high temperature, of 365 ◦ C, and a relatively low overall cost of 285 USD/m 2 . In either approach — reflective or transmissive PV assemblies — the key non-ideality comes from undesired spectral absorption/scattering in the PV cells and other components in the optical path. Within the PV cell itself, this can be mitigated to some extent through high-purity and/or thin materials. However, electricity is typically more valuable than thermal energy, placing the PV first will naturally prioritize the PV output, which can be considered an advantage over the other spectral splitting approaches. 3.5. Nanofluids One pathway for improving PV-T collector performance is to improve the thermal efficiency of the system. Since the thermal Fig. 33. A 2020 prototype of a down-shifting luminescent solar concentrator which transmits to a commercial Si module and also emits to PV cells on the sides. Reused from Cardoso et al. [446], with permission from Elsevier. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 31 efficiency is higher when the useful heat gained by the working fluid is maximized relative to the input solar energy, increasing heat transfer to the working fluid will result in efficiency increases. As noted above, design modifications can result in improvements, while this section focusses purely on improving thermal performance through the modi - fications of fluids. Nanofluids, or nm-sized particle suspensions in liq - uids, have long been of interest as a means to increase the thermal conductivity of a base fluid [457,458]. While nanofluids result in in - creases in thermal conductivity, they also drastically alter the optical properties of the base fluid at low-volume fractions, making them a potential option for spectral filtration [459] and broadband absorption [418]. Thus, for beam splitting, changes in the thermal properties (from the base fluid) can be neglected. In addition, metals (with a strong plasmonic response) and other optically selective materials (e.g., Fig. 34. Experimental testing of a spectrum-splitting transmissive concentrator PV panel: (a) exploded view of the design; (b) assembled view; and (c) mounted design with sensors. Reused from Keblinski et al. [455], with permission from Elsevier. Fig. 35. Different design arrangements used for nanofluid-based PV-T collectors: (a) single-pass coolant beneath PV cells; (b) optical filter in front of PV cells; (c) optical filter in front of PV cells with nanofluid as the coolant; and (d) decoupled nanofluid optical filter and nanofluid coolant. Images reprinted from Yazdanifard et al. [461], with permission from Elsevier. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 32 quantum dots) represent the most useful nanomaterials for spectral splitting. For the interested reader, the approach and key equations for calculating the optical properties of spectral splitting nanofluids can be found in, e.g., Ref. [460]. Fig. 35 summarizes the major design configurations that can be used in PV-T collectors utilizing nanofluids [461]. Fig. 35(a) represents the simplest configuration where the nanofluid acts as the coolant for the PV cell and flows beneath the PV cell, hence it is not directly exposed to solar irradiance. Fig. 35(b) uses the nanofluid as an optical filter by placing the nanofluid before the PV cell and directly heating the fluid by absorbing incoming solar flux. Fig. 35(c) and (d) represent arrangements where the nanofluid acts both as an optical filter and as a coolant, with Fig. 35(d) decoupling the coolant and optical filter fluid streams. These configurations represent different approaches to improve the perfor - mance of a hybrid PV-T collector, solely through improving the thermal performance and will be discussed in more detail below, with an emphasis on flat-plate PV-T collectors, while other recent reviews cover low and high concentration systems [301,462]. As with natural liquid splitting — although there is a beneficial extra degree of freedom for optimization — the main non-ideality of this approach is that it is nearly impossible to achieve a sharp spectral splitting curve. This imprecise spectral splitting will not create a major loss in performance for the thermal receiver since broad-based absorp - tion is easily achieved, but it can derate the output of the PV cells. Some electrical loss is unavoidable since even the best nanofluids will not transmit all of the light incident on the collector aperture that falls within their spectral response curve to the PV cells. 3.5.1. Heat transfer enhancement Improving the thermal conductivity of base fluids through the addition of nanoparticles garnered significant interest following the original publication of Choi and Eastman [463]. While these results spawned a whole flurry of research into measuring the thermal transport properties of nanofluids [464], the application of nanofluids in ST col - lectors for enhanced thermal transport did not appear until 2012. The first experimental demonstration of nanofluids for conventional flat plate solar thermal collectors was undertaken by Yousefi et al. [465,466] in a variety of publications investigating the role of nanoparticles on the collector efficiency for multi-wall carbon nanotubes, and Al 2 O 3 nano - particles [467], both suspended in water. These studies indicated that the use of nanoparticles for enhancing the thermal conductivity of the base fluid could be used to enhance the efficiency of flat-plate ST col - lectors. One of the first investigations of nanofluids as coolants in PV-T collectors was Sardarabadi et al. [468], where SiO 2 /water nanofluids were used in a 40 W monocrystalline silicon PV-T collector. As shown in Fig. 36(a) the overall efficiency of the device improves by up to 8%, driven both by a combination of thermal efficiency and electrical effi - ciency (see Fig. 36(b)). Some authors investigated the improvement in electrical efficiency of PV cells cooled by rectangular microchannels containing a Boehmite (AlOOH)-water nanofluid [469]. The results indicated the highest in - crease in electrical efficiency of 27% at 0.01 wt.% over the case of pure water, no measurement in thermal efficiency was measured as the pri - mary interest was the PV cell cooling. Meanwhile, other authors pre - sented an experimental measurement of a copper oxide-water nanofluid where a decrease in electrical efficiency and an increase in thermal ef - ficiency was observed relative to pure water [470], this was attributed to a poor heat exchanger that resulted in increased inlet temperatures. A novel experiment investigated the role of ferrofluids, Fe 3 O 4 nanoparticle-water nanofluids, under conditions with and without external magnetic fields (both constant and alternating) [471]. Using their experimental setup (see Fig. 37), an improvement in the overall efficiency of the system of 45% when ferrofluids were used relative to that of pure water, this improvement increased to 50% when a 50 Hz alternating magnetic field was applied. In the study of Rejeb et al. [472], a numerical model of uncovered nanofluid-based PV-T collectors was developed and validated against experimental data for Al 2 O 3 and CuO nanoparticles, with results showing increases in both electrical and thermal energy yields in different locations. Another modelling effort focussed on the exergy payback time and reduction of CO 2 equivalent emissions of multiple configurations of PV-T collectors in comparison to pure PV systems [473]. This work focussed on two primary system types, nanofluid as pure coolant (see Fig. 35(a)) and nanofluid as optical filter and coolant (see Fig. 35(d)). The cases where the nanofluid acted as filter and coolant outperformed the others in terms of exergy output with an exergy payback time of 2 years. Additionally, the same configuration may prevent emissions on the order of 448 kgCO 2eq /(m 2 year). Sardar - abadi and Passandideh-Fard followed up their initial work by investi - gating several different metallic oxide nanoparticles (TiO 2 , ZnO, and Fig. 36. (a) Overall PV-T collector efficiency as a function of flow rate with different weight fractions of SiO 2 ; and (b) the resulting increase in PV cell efficiency. Reprinted from Sardarabadi et al. [468], with permission from Elsevier. 2 The Hoffmann voltameter is an early electrolyser with an operating prin - ciple similar to the contemporary alkaline electrolyser described above. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 33 Al 2 O 3 ) as the coolant in PV-T collectors [474], both experimentally and numerically. All nanoparticle types resulted in an increased, although small, PV cell efficiency through cooling and an increased collector temperature difference, with the ZnO performing best. As shown in Fig. 38(a), increasing the mass fraction greatly increases the collected thermal energy (collector temperature difference), but only has a mild impact on the overall cell efficiency. More recent studies have focussed on the use of carbon-based nano - particles, including graphene, to improve the performance, with an in - crease of 19% in the total efficiency over pure water achieved with graphene [475]. In a similar effort, a total increase in exergetic efficiency was observed of roughly 20% for a PV-T collector using graphene nanoplatelets in water over a pure-water PV-T collector [476]. An expanded area of interest has been the coupling of nanofluid-based PV-T collectors with thermal energy storage, particularly with PCMs to achieve increased thermal energy collection in the solar collector and increased heat transfer in the PCM. In one instance, a neural network approach was used to model the performance of this style of collector with the results providing a similar linear prediction with low error [477] and experi - mental results showing almost a doubling of the system ’ s electrical effi - ciency, which increased from 7% to close to 14% [373]. 3.5.2. Optical absorption While nanofluids have often been the study of investigations thanks to the improvement in the base fluid thermal conductivity that they offer, they can also be used to radically alter the base fluid optical properties [478] either for direct absorption or spectral splitting [459]. Nanofluids were first proposed to serve as both the absorber and the heat transfer fluid in a numerical work [479], and later demonstrated experimentally [480]. In principle, nanofluids for use in direct absorp - tion solar collectors (DASCs) can be designed for either broadband ab - sorption or spectral filtration [459]. In practice, a broadband DASC PV-T collector is less than desirable as the fluid flowing in front of the PV cell, as shown in Fig. 35(b – d), will result in decreased solar energy to the PV cells resulting in a substantial decrease in the PV cell efficiency, as demonstrated experimentally recently for MXene-based nanofluid [481]. It should be noted that broadband DASCs using nanofluids could be advantageous relative to existing surface-based approaches [482] for PV-T collectors using the spectral splitting arrangements outlined in Section 3.4, where the thermal collector is spatially removed from the PV cell. The focus here is on spectral filtering applications of nanofluids [301] in PV-T collectors. Importantly, several materials have sharp absorption peaks when properly sized or doped creating the ability of spectral filtering above what is offered in the base fluid, which is typi - cally poor at short path lengths [483], also shown in Fig. 39. In a PV-T collector where the fluid acts as the spectral absorber and filter, the goal is to absorb the maximum amount of solar energy outside of wave - lengths just above the cell band-gap and just above a lower cut-off [460]. This approach is similar for both low and high temperatures (corre - sponding to concentration) but the lower cut-off wavelength can be selected and optimized based on temperature [484] and the split be - tween thermal and electrical energy, often termed a merit factor [485]. While the vast majority of spectral filtering articles focus on systems using concentration where higher temperatures are desired from the thermal system, there are a few experimental demonstrations. Arguably, the first proposed use of this approach was by Taylor et al. [460], where several nanofluids were modelled for different PV applications. One of the earliest studies of spectral filtration investigated the stagnation temperature observed in a nanofluid composed of gold and silver nanoparticles in water placed in front of a PV cell [486]. Higher stag - nation temperatures were observed in the nanofluids, but no PV cell efficiency was recorded. In a similar effort, the authors tested Ag@TiO 2 core – shell nanoparticles in water without fluid flow or concentration under a lamp (see Fig. 40) [487]. Other authors tested silver nano - particles in water and CoSO 4 with a solar simulator, but no flow was used and the performance was only measured as a filter nor as a collector of useful energy [488]. Similarly, another work tested Ag@TiO 2 nano - fluids as a spectral filter without flow and demonstrated increasing temperatures and lower PV production when the nanoparticle concen - tration increased [489]. From these results, it can be seen that more work is needed for these low-temperature and concentration collectors to demonstrate the potential when there is actual flow in the fluid filter generating useful energy. In general, it is estimated that PV-T collectors that include nanofluids for heat transfer enhancement or for optical absorption are at TRL 6 where prototypes have been done. To the best knowledge of the authors, no large-scale demonstrations have been completed. Finally, it is noted that nanofluids have faced some controversy, arising from limitations related to their use in practice that arise from technical issues, such as agglomeration, sedimentation or otherwise decrease in concentration leading to a drop in efficacy over time. For proposed solutions to stand a chance of implementation in real applications of interest, these need to be addressed and these challenges overcame to demonstrate safety as well as the full lifecycle implications of their use [490]. Fig. 37. PV-T collector employing ferrofluids: (a) experimental setup; and (b) overall exergy output for different applied fields and pure water. Reprinted from Ghadiri et al. [471], with permission from Elsevier. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 34 3.6. Optimization methods of PV-T collectors The geometric parameters and operating conditions have a direct effect on the overall performance of PV-T collectors. Recent studies on the optimization of PV-T collectors are summarized in Table 8. The Taguchi method is a statistical method developed by Genichi Taguchi that aims at improving the quality of manufactured products, and has been widely applied to different engineering fields [497]. Liu et al. [491] used the Taguchi method to optimize performance-related parameters, and specifically to maximize the equivalent overall energy output of a PV-T-PCM collector. Their optimization results showed that the mass flow rate has a strong effect, whereas the thickness of the PCM has a limited impact on collector performance (Table 8 shows the optimal values). A hybrid Taguchi and analytic hierarchy process (AHP) method was developed by Kuo et al. [492] to optimize the selection of collector materials, the number of pipes and tank volume, among others. The electrical and thermal efficiencies of the optimized water-based PV-T collector were 14% and 45%, respectively, which are 13% and 34% higher compared to the conventional PV-T collector. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) are another common algorithm that has been used to predict and optimize the performance of PV-T collectors. Ammar et al. [493] developed an ANN to optimize the flow rate for the maximum overall (thermal + electrical) energy output of a water-based PV-T collector under different ambient temperatures and solar irradiance levels (Table 8 shows the optimal values). A hybrid ANN Fig. 38. Role of ZnO nanoparticle mass fraction on: (a) collector temperature difference; and (b) increase in electrical efficiency relative to pure water. Reprinted from Sardarabadi et al. [474], with permission from Elsevier. Fig. 39. Fluid filter spectra for a silicon solar cell. Curves demonstrate the ideal filter, as well as a potential filter using various pure fluids and a nanofluid. Reprinted from Taylor et al. [460] with permission under the Creative Com - mons Attribution 3.0 Unported (CC-BY) license. Fig. 40. Experimental test arrangement of nanofluid-based spectral filtering for PV-T collector. Images reprinted from Saroha et al. [487], with permission from Elsevier. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 35 and particle swarm optimization model was developed by Alnaqi et al. [494] to optimize the performance of an air-based PV-T collector for space heating applications. This work introduced details on developing such a hybrid optimization model. A genetic algorithm is a widely-used method for single- or multi- objective optimization. Khani et al. [495] developed a single-objective (electrical efficiency) and a multi-objective (electrical and thermal effi - ciencies) genetic algorithm to optimize a water-based PV-T collector. The optimized design (tube diameter: 0.02 m, tube number: 14, tube spacing: 0.065 m, and flow rate: 0.004 kg/s) achieved 9% and 12% extra electrical power and thermal energy compared to a conventional design. A two-step procedure, combining a hybrid non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA-II) and a technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution (TOPSIS), was developed by Podder et al. [496] to optimize the electrical and thermal efficiencies of a water-based PV-T collector. The thermal and electrical efficiencies of the water-based PV-T collector reached 83% and 10%, respectively, with an optimal flow rate of 0.02 kg/s, an inlet temperature of 32 ◦ C and an inclination angle of 39 ◦ . 4. PV-T polygeneration systems and their applications Typical applications of PV-T systems include both domestic and commercial buildings and industries. These applications have high en - ergy demands for both heat and electricity. Due to the additional ther - mal output of the PV-T collectors, they are more efficient in terms of area utilization and cost-effective than separate PV and ST units of the same area. The various types of PV-T collectors are best suited to different applications as shown in Fig. 41, which summarizes the state-of-the-art of the main applications. Table 9 summarizes research on PV-T polygeneration systems, specifying whether the studies are theoretical (simulation-based), lab- scale (test-rig experiments) or site-scale (real condition experiments), the type of PV-T collector used, and the energy performance, where available. It is observed that the majority of the studies are theoretical (simulation-based), although there are also some lab-scale (test appa - ratus) or site-scale (under real conditions) studies that analyse different systems that provide water heating, electricity and/or cooling. More details of these studies can be found in the following sections. The market survey undertaken under Task 60 [25], shows that the majority of the PV-T systems installed by the end of 2018 were for the application of solar air (pre)heating/cooling for buildings, with 20,121 installations reported, with a total accumulated area of around 440,000 m 2 . The survey reported 2,169 systems of uncovered water-based PV-T collectors in operation, corresponding to total a gross area of approxi - mately 610,000 m 2 , out of which 75% were used for DHW provision in buildings, around 21% for electricity, space heating and DHW provision in households, and the remaining 4% for other applications such as in - dustrial processes, district heating, and swimming pool heating. The covered water-based PV-T system installations reported were mainly used for electricity, space heating and DHW provision in buildings [92]. 4.1. Solar combined heat and power systems Air-based PV-T collectors produce electricity and hot air, which is typically used for space heating or solar drying (see Section 4.5). These collectors normally have an HP as a backup system [28,393,506]. Alternatively, liquid-based PV-T collectors are widely used for heat and power provision. There are different applications depending on the PV-T collector type and liquid outlet temperature [507]: • Low-temperature applications, up to 50 ◦ C: include swimming pool heating or spas (~27 – 35 ◦ C) using normally uncovered PV-T col - lectors with water as circulating fluid. Meanwhile, operating tem - peratures up to 50 ◦ C are required for space heating via radiant underfloor heating (UFH), for which both uncovered and covered Table 8 Optimization methods of PV-T collectors. PV-T type Optimization algorithm Control parameters Optimization objectives Key results Ref. PCM-based PV- T collectors Taguchi method PCM thickness, water pipe diameter, mass flow rate and water inlet temperature Equivalent overall output energy Optimal thickness of PCM is 20 mm, optimal diameter of water pipe is 6 mm, and optimal flow rate is ~1 kg/s [491] Water-based PV-T collectors Taguchi method combined with AHP Collector material, angle, azimuth, number of tubes, mass flow rate and storage tank volume/area (V/A) ratio Electrical and thermal efficiencies Optimal values: material is copper, number of tubes is 12, the flow rate is 0.01 kg/s/m 2 , V/A ratio is 123 [492] Water-based PV-T collectors ANN Mass flow rate (for different solar radiation, ambient temperature) Electrical and thermal outputs The optimal flow rate is ~0.012 kg/s (for an ambient temperature of 30 ◦ C and solar irradiance of 1000 W/m 2 ) [493] Air-based PV-T collectors ANN and hybrid particle swarm optimization models Length, width, and depth of the air channel, air mass flow rate Total (thermal + electrical) outputs The optimal number of neurons in the hidden layer of ANN is 8 [494] Water-based PV-T collectors Genetic algorithm Tube diameter, tube number, mass flow rate, tube spacing. Electrical and thermal efficiencies The optimization method is able to achieve 9% and 12% extra electrical power and thermal energy [495] Water-based PV-T collectors NSGA-II and TOPSIS Mass flow rate, inlet temperature, and inclination angle Electrical and thermal efficiencies Optimal values: flow rate is 0.02 kg/s, the inlet temperature is 32 ◦ C and the inclination angle is 39 ◦ [496] Fig. 41. The main applications of the different types of PV-T collectors addressed in this work. M. Herrando et al.
Progress in Energy and Combustion Science 97 (2023) 101072 36 water-based PV-T collectors are used. Alternatively, UFH can also be satisfied with PV-T collectors integrated with low-temperature HPs. • Medium-temperature applications, up to 80 ◦ C: include space heat - ing via conventional water radiators or DHW provision, for which a temperature of 60 ◦ C is